>> Mike North: So one of the interesting
things about tools for JavaScript, for
editors for JavaScript,
is that unlike other languages like Java,
it seems that these light editors
are way more popular than
like the heavier IDE type experience.
IDEs would be like, Eclipse, or NetBeans,
that's one that I used to use,
or IntelliJ.
These are things that are designed for
typed languages where you can analyze
the code and figure out you know
you can do a bunch of indexing in the
background and figure out what's going on.
Traditionally this is not really been
easy or possible with JavaScript because.
It is dynamically typed and
you know we kind figure out if
something is gonna work at run time.
Static analysis cannot traditionally
get us as quite as far.
So this is where we saw things
like Sublime and Atom and
like Notepad++ for
Windows users becoming really popular.
More cell than the heavier experiences.
Now, it's not to say that it is bad to
use this other types of development
environments but they have not become,
the defacto standard for
the JavaScript world as they have been for
languages like Java or Ruby, right?
Those sort of have
a go-to editor of sorts.
So I think code strikes a great balance.
Visual Studio Code strikes a great balance
between providing some of the features we
like in these heavier experiences while
keeping things as simple as possible.
It all starts with just
opening a text file.
And we don't have to create a big
project or a big workplace.
We can opt into that as we go.
So one of the most impressive things
about the way that this works,
the way Visual Studio code
has started to evolve
is we're seeing like great
features drop every month.
Every release seems to have more and
more rich functionality for us.
And they have a habit, a good habit,
of developing features
that sort of enrich our experience without
introducing any complexity from our part.
Right?
Like next to a color,
why not put a little swatch
of what that color looks like that
you can click on and you can change.
That doesn't require any set up.
It doesn't detract from
anyone's experience.
And it makes it feel like
way more than just text.
So, over time, we've seen
the ability to add task running.
So this is auto detection of things
that are in your npm scripts, or
your gulp file, or your grunt file.
You can launch those
from within the editor.
We see the ability to check
settings into a project.
So if you have a particular
set of paths or particular
set of launch configurations,
which we'll talk about later in the day,
that relate to That specific piece of
code, that can be checked in with get.
That can be something
your whole team shares.
The plug in ecosystem has
been really successful.
I think the code team has
taken one of Adam's great
decisions and made it so
that web developers.
Can build plugins more easily.
It's all built with web technology,
like what you're looking at here,
this in fact is a browser.
If we toggle developer tools,
you may recognize this as like,
what we're looking at is a Chrome,
more or less.
I can actually inspect element.
Maybe I can inspect all the way down
there, because we have an object here,
but this is definitely HTML and CSS.
We as web developers know
how to work with this.
And it's more approachable and so
the result is people are writing plug ins
like crazy and they are high quality.
Sublime had a little bit of a challenging.
It'll ramp up to building plug-ins.
Because behind the scenes
everything was Perl, right.
So you had to know Perl and
be a wed developer to build
those web development plug-ins.
So one of the great things that
IDEs bring to the table is this
ability to analyze our
code in the background.
And Visual Studio code has
started to incorporate that.
Recently, as of this year,
we get to use typescript which is
at the core of Visual Studio code.
We use some typescript tools to
analyze regular JavaScript and
we're gonna look at how we
can go about doing that and
Catch subtle errors or
subtle inconsistencies within our code.
So we're starting to get
IDE-like benefits in a light and
thin sort of text editor experience.
And then finally,
this has been built, and again,
this is probably the newest editor on the
market, in terms of widespread adoption.
They get to stand on the shoulders
of everything that came before them.
And it seems that they've built things
that the Visual Studio Code team has built
things in a way that is really extensible.
So you see plug ins for things like elixir
and go, languages that really have nothing
to do with what this editor
was originally intended for.
But the experiences ends
up being really good,
where you can have the right
abstractions around debugging
tools where you can hook up a go
debugger or rust debugger really easily.
Despite the fact that like this is really
built with web developers in mind.